Linux Commands Assignment
1. Create a new directory called linux-assignment in your home directory.
Solution:
To create a new directory following linux command is used:

mkdir linux-assignment

The mkdir stands for ‘make directory’. This command creates a new
directory in the system.

2. Navigate into the linux-assignment directory.
Solution:
cd linux-assignment directory

The above cd i.e change directory command is used to navigate into the directory.

3. Create a new file called instructions.txt.
Solution:
The following command is used to create a new file:
Cat > instructions.txt

The ‘cat’ command can be used to create a new file with greater than sign
(>).

4. Write “Hello, World!” into instructions.txt using a command-line text
editor like nano, vi, or emacs.
Solution:
nano istructions.txt
  
The above nano command will allow us to write and edit the text in the file.

5. Display the contents of instructions.txt using a command.
Solution:
The following command is used to display the content:
cat instructions.txt

6. Rename instructions.txt to greetings.txt.
Solution:
The following command is used to rename the file:
mv instructions.txt greetings.txt

In this command it is needed to specify one file as the source and one file as a destination target to
rename any file.

7. Copy greetings.txt to a new file called salutations.txt.
Solution:
The following command is used to copy the file to new file:
cp greetings.txt salutations.txt

8. Delete greetings.txt.
Solution:
rm greetings.txt

The above command is used for deletion. rm command is used to remove a file. The command line doesn’t have a recycle
bin or trash to recover the files. Hence, the deleted file will removed
permanently.

9. Create a new directory called archive.
Solution:
mkdir archive

The above command will create a new directory archive in your system.

10. Move salutations.txt to the archive directory.
Solution:
The mv command is used to move files and directories from one location to
another. To move file into directory, specify the files you want to move as
the source. And specify the directory name as destination in which you want
to move the file as following command:

  Mv salutations.txt ~/archive

11. Display the current working directory to confirm that salutations.txt
is now in the archive directory.
Solution:
The command to display current working directory is as follows:

pwd

pwd stands for Print Working Directory. It writes the complete path name of
the working directory to standard output in UNIX-like and other operating
systems. 

12. Navigate back to the linux-assignment directory and create three new
empty files named file1.txt, file2.txt, and file3.txt.
Solution:
The following command will take us to the linux-assignment directory.
cd linux-assignment directory
 
And then the below command will create a new empty files in the directory.
cat file1.txt, file2.txt, and file3.txt

13. Display the list of files in the linux-assignment directory to confirm
the creation of the new files.
Solution:
To display all the files in the current working directory i.e. linux-
assignment following command is used.

ls

14. Create a new text file in your home directory named linux-assignment-
commands.txt and write down all the commands you used in this assignment.
Solution:
To create a new text file in home directory following command is used:

cat linux-assignment-commands.txt






